.TH LRM 1 "November 2025" "lrm 0.7.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lrm \- Linux-native CLI tool for managing .NET .resx localization files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lrm
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fICOMMAND OPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B LRM
(Localization Resource Manager) is a powerful, Linux-native command-line tool for managing .NET localization files (.resx and JSON formats) with an interactive Terminal UI.
.PP
Features include:
.IP \(bu 2
Interactive Terminal UI for visual editing
.IP \(bu 2
Machine translation support (Google, DeepL, OpenAI, Claude, Ollama)
.IP \(bu 2
CI/CD automation workflows
.IP \(bu 2
Validation and placeholder checking
.IP \(bu 2
Code scanning for unused/missing keys
.IP \(bu 2
Backup system with diff view
.IP \(bu 2
Multi-platform support (Linux x64/ARM64)
.IP \(bu 2
Web UI with REST API for browser-based management
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to Resources folder (default: current directory)
.TP
.BR \-\-backend " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Resource format backend: json or resx (auto-detected if not specified)
.TP
.BR \-\-config\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to configuration file (optional, default: auto-discover lrm.json)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help information
.SH COMMANDS
.SS init
Initialize a new localization project.
.PP
.B lrm init
[\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-interactive\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-default\-lang\fR \fICODE\fR]
[\fB\-\-languages\fR \fICODES\fR]
[\fB\-\-base\-name\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Run interactive setup wizard
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Resource format: json (default), resx
.TP
.BR \-\-default\-lang " " \fICODE\fR
Default language code (e.g., en, en-US)
.TP
.BR \-\-languages " " \fICODES\fR
Additional language codes, comma-separated (e.g., fr,de,el)
.TP
.BR \-\-base\-name " " \fINAME\fR
Base filename for resources (default: strings)
.SS convert
Convert resource files between formats (RESX and JSON).
.PP
.B lrm convert
[\fB\-\-from\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-to\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-nested\fR]
[\fB\-\-include\-comments\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-from " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Source format: resx or json (auto-detected if not specified)
.TP
.BR \-\-to " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Target format: resx or json
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIPATH\fR
Output directory (default: same as source)
.TP
.BR \-\-nested
Convert dot-separated keys to nested structure (JSON only)
.TP
.BR \-\-include\-comments
Preserve comments in output (default: true)
.SS validate
Validate resource files for missing translations, duplicates, and errors.
.PP
.B lrm validate
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-missing\-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: table (default), json, simple
.TP
.BR \-\-missing\-only
Show only missing translations
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-backup
Skip automatic backup before validation
.SS stats
Display translation statistics and coverage.
.PP
.B lrm stats
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: table (default), json, simple
.SS view
View details of a specific key or pattern across all languages.
.PP
.B lrm view
\fIKEY_PATTERN\fR
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-cultures\fR \fICULTURES\fR]
[\fB\-\-search\-in\fR \fISCOPE\fR]
[\fB\-\-status\fR \fISTATUS\fR]
[\fB\-\-keys\-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-count\fR]
[\fB\-\-sort\fR]
[\fB\-\-not\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]
.TP
.I KEY_PATTERN
Key name or regex pattern (e.g., "SaveButton", "Error.*", "*.Text")
.TP
.BR \-\-search\-in " " \fISCOPE\fR
Search scope: keys (default), values, comments, both
.TP
.BR \-\-cultures " " \fICULTURES\fR
Comma-separated list of cultures to display
.TP
.BR \-\-status " " \fISTATUS\fR
Filter by translation status: translated, untranslated, all (default)
.SS add
Add a new key to all language files.
.PP
.B lrm add
\fIKEY\fR
[\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-interactive\fR]
[\fB\-\-lang\fR \fICULTURE\fR:\fIVALUE\fR]
[\fB\-\-ask\-missing\fR]
[\fB\-\-plural\fR]
[\fB\-\-plural\-form\fR \fIFORM\fR:\fIVALUE\fR]
[\fB\-\-comment\fR \fICOMMENT\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.I KEY
The key name to add
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Interactive mode (prompts for values in all languages)
.TP
.BR \-\-lang " " \fICULTURE\fR:\fIVALUE\fR
Specify value for a specific language (can be repeated)
.TP
.BR \-\-ask\-missing
Prompt for missing language values. By default, unspecified languages will have empty values.
.TP
.BR \-\-plural
Create a plural key with multiple forms (JSON only). Use with \fB\-i\fR for interactive plural form entry.
.TP
.BR \-\-plural\-form " " \fIFORM\fR:\fIVALUE\fR
Plural form value (can be repeated). Valid forms: zero, one, two, few, many, other. Example: \fB\-\-plural\-form one:"{0} item" \-\-plural\-form other:"{0} items"\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-comment " " \fICOMMENT\fR
Optional comment for the resource entry
.SS update
Update values for an existing key.
.PP
.B lrm update
\fIKEY\fR
[\fB\-\-lang\fR \fICULTURE\fR:\fIVALUE\fR]
[\fB\-\-plural\-form\fR \fIFORM\fR:\fIVALUE\fR]
[\fB\-\-comment\fR \fICOMMENT\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-interactive\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-lang " " \fICULTURE\fR:\fIVALUE\fR
Specify value for a specific language (can be repeated)
.TP
.BR \-\-plural\-form " " \fIFORM\fR:\fIVALUE\fR
Update plural form value for existing plural keys (can be repeated). Valid forms: zero, one, two, few, many, other.
.TP
.BR \-\-comment " " \fICOMMENT\fR
Optional comment for the resource entry
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Interactive mode (prompts for values in all languages)
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts
.SS delete
Delete a key from all language files.
.PP
.B lrm delete
\fIKEY\fR
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompt
.SS merge\-duplicates
Merge duplicate key occurrences into a single entry.
.PP
.B lrm merge\-duplicates
\fIKEY\fR
[\fB\-\-auto\-merge\fR]
[\fB\-\-keep\fR \fIINDEX\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.SS export
Export translations to CSV, JSON, or text format.
.PP
.B lrm export
[\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Output file path (default: Resources.csv)
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Export format: csv (default), json, text
.SS import
Import translations from CSV file.
.PP
.B lrm import
\fIFILE\fR
[\fB\-\-validate\-after\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-validate\-after
Run validation after import
.SS edit
Launch interactive Terminal UI editor.
.PP
.B lrm edit
[\fB\-\-source\-path\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-source\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to source code directory for code scanning (default: parent directory of resource path)
.PP
Keyboard shortcuts:
.IP \(bu 2
↑/↓ or j/k - Navigate keys
.IP \(bu 2
Enter - Edit selected key
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+N - Add new key
.IP \(bu 2
Del - Delete key
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+T - Translate selected key
.IP \(bu 2
F4 - Translate all missing
.IP \(bu 2
F5 - Configure providers
.IP \(bu 2
F6 - Validation
.IP \(bu 2
F7 - Code scan / Backup manager
.IP \(bu 2
Space - Toggle row selection
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+A - Select all visible keys
.IP \(bu 2
Shift+↑/↓ - Extend selection
.IP \(bu 2
Esc - Clear selection
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+Z/Y - Undo/Redo
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+C/V - Copy/Paste value
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+S - Save changes
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+Q - Quit
.SS add\-language
Create a new language file.
.PP
.B lrm add\-language
\fB\-\-culture\fR \fICULTURE\fR
[\fB\-\-copy\-from\fR \fISOURCE\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-culture " " \fICULTURE\fR
Culture code (e.g., fr, de, es)
.TP
.BR \-\-copy\-from " " \fISOURCE\fR
Copy values from source culture (default: default)
.SS remove\-language
Delete a language file.
.PP
.B lrm remove\-language
\fB\-\-culture\fR \fICULTURE\fR
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.SS list\-languages
List all detected language files.
.PP
.B lrm list\-languages
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
.SS backup list
List all backup versions.
.PP
.B lrm backup list
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR]
.SS backup create
Create a manual backup.
.PP
.B lrm backup create
[\fB\-\-description\fR \fIDESC\fR]
.SS backup restore
Restore from a backup version.
.PP
.B lrm backup restore
\fB\-\-version\fR \fIN\fR
[\fB\-\-preview\fR]
[\fB\-\-keys\fR \fIKEYS\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
.SS backup diff
Compare two backup versions or current state.
.PP
.B lrm backup diff
\fB\-\-version\fR \fIN\fR
[\fB\-\-compare\-to\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
.SS backup info
View backup metadata and statistics.
.PP
.B lrm backup info
\fB\-\-version\fR \fIN\fR
.SS backup prune
Clean up old backup versions.
.PP
.B lrm backup prune
[\fB\-\-keep\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-older\-than\fR \fIDAYS\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
.SS scan
Scan source code for localization key usage.
.PP
.B lrm scan
[\fB\-\-source\-path\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-file\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-resource\-classes\fR \fICLASSES\fR]
[\fB\-\-localization\-methods\fR \fIMETHODS\fR]
[\fB\-\-strict\fR]
[\fB\-\-show\-unused\fR]
[\fB\-\-show\-missing\fR]
[\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIPATTERN\fR]
[\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-source\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to source code (default: parent directory)
.TP
.BR \-\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Scan a single file instead of entire codebase
.TP
.BR \-\-resource\-classes " " \fICLASSES\fR
Comma-separated resource class names
.TP
.BR \-\-strict
High-confidence static references only
.SS translate
Automatically translate keys using machine translation.
.PP
.B lrm translate
[\fB\-\-provider\fR \fIPROVIDER\fR]
[\fB\-\-target\-languages\fR \fILANGS\fR]
[\fB\-\-only\-missing\fR]
[\fB\-\-keys\fR \fIKEYS\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-backup\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-provider " " \fIPROVIDER\fR
Translation provider: google, deepl, libretranslate, azure, openai, claude, azureopenai, ollama
.TP
.BR \-\-target\-languages " " \fILANGS\fR
Comma-separated target language codes
.TP
.BR \-\-only\-missing
Translate only missing values
.SS config
Manage translation provider configuration.
.PP
.B lrm config
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.PP
Subcommands:
.IP \(bu 2
.B list-providers
- List available translation providers
.IP \(bu 2
.B set-api-key
- Set API key for a provider
.IP \(bu 2
.B get-api-key
- Check where an API key is configured
.IP \(bu 2
.B delete-api-key
- Remove an API key from the store
.SS cloud
Cloud synchronization commands for LRM Cloud.
.PP
.B lrm cloud
\fISUBCOMMAND\fR
.PP
Subcommands:
.IP \(bu 2
.B login \fIHOST\fR
- Authenticate with LRM Cloud via browser
.IP \(bu 2
.B logout
- Clear stored authentication tokens
.IP \(bu 2
.B status
- Show cloud sync status
.IP \(bu 2
.B push
- Push local changes to cloud
.IP \(bu 2
.B pull
- Pull remote changes from cloud
.IP \(bu 2
.B set-token
- Manually set an authentication token
.IP \(bu 2
.B set-api-key
- Store a CLI API key for cloud authentication
.IP \(bu 2
.B remote
- Remote URL configuration (set, get, unset)
.SS cloud set\-api\-key
Store a CLI API key for cloud authentication.
.PP
.B lrm cloud set\-api\-key
[\fB\-\-key\fR \fIKEY\fR]
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB\-\-remove\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-key " " \fIKEY\fR
API key to store (will prompt if not provided)
.TP
.BR \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
Remote host (auto-detected from remote URL if configured)
.TP
.BR \-\-remove
Remove stored API key instead of setting one
.PP
API keys provide an alternative to JWT authentication for CI/CD pipelines and automation.
Priority: environment variable (LRM_CLOUD_API_KEY) > stored key > JWT token
.SS chain
Execute multiple LRM commands sequentially in a single invocation.
.PP
.B lrm chain
\fICOMMANDS\fR
[\fB\-\-continue\-on\-error\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.TP
.I COMMANDS
Commands to execute, separated by ' -- ' (space-dash-dash-space)
.TP
.BR \-\-continue\-on\-error
Continue executing commands even if one fails (default: stop on first error)
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run
Show what commands would be executed without running them
.PP
Examples:
.TP
Translation workflow:
.B lrm chain validate --format json -- translate --only-missing -- export -o output.csv
.TP
Validation and scanning:
.B lrm chain validate -- scan --strict
.TP
Backup before update:
.B lrm chain backup create -- update SaveButton --lang default:"Save" -- validate
.TP
Dry run to preview:
.B lrm chain validate -- translate --only-missing --dry-run
.SS web
Start web server with REST API and Blazor UI for browser-based management.
.PP
.B lrm web
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-bind\-address\fR \fIADDRESS\fR]
[\fB\-\-source\-path\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-open\-browser\fR]
[\fB\-\-enable\-https\fR]
[\fB\-\-cert\-path\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-cert\-password\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Port to bind the web server to (default: 5000)
.TP
.BR \-\-bind\-address " " \fIADDRESS\fR
Address to bind to: localhost, 0.0.0.0, * (default: localhost)
.TP
.BR \-\-source\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to source code directory for code scanning
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-open\-browser
Do not automatically open browser on startup
.TP
.BR \-\-enable\-https
Enable HTTPS
.TP
.BR \-\-cert\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to HTTPS certificate file (.pfx)
.TP
.BR \-\-cert\-password " " \fIPASSWORD\fR
Password for HTTPS certificate
.PP
The web server provides:
.IP \(bu 2
REST API at /api/* endpoints
.IP \(bu 2
Swagger UI at /swagger
.IP \(bu 2
Blazor Server UI at root URL
.IP \(bu 2
All CLI features accessible via browser
.SH FILES
.TP
.I lrm.json
Configuration file (auto-discovered in resource folder)
.TP
.I ~/.lrm/
User configuration directory
.TP
.I ~/.lrm/translation-cache.db
Translation cache database
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LRM_GOOGLE_API_KEY
Google Cloud Translation API key
.TP
.B LRM_DEEPL_API_KEY
DeepL API key
.TP
.B LRM_OPENAI_API_KEY
OpenAI API key
.TP
.B LRM_CLAUDE_API_KEY
Anthropic Claude API key
.TP
.B LRM_AZURE_TRANSLATOR_KEY
Azure Translator API key
.TP
.B LRM_AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY
Azure OpenAI API key
.TP
.B LRM_CLOUD_API_KEY
CLI API key for LRM Cloud authentication (used in CI/CD)
.TP
.B DOTNET_CLI_TELEMETRY_OPTOUT
Set to 1 to disable .NET telemetry
.TP
.B LRM_WEB_PORT
Override default web server port
.TP
.B LRM_WEB_BIND_ADDRESS
Override default web server bind address
.TP
.B LRM_WEB_AUTO_OPEN_BROWSER
Enable/disable auto browser open (true/false)
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize a new JSON localization project:
.B lrm init \-\-format json \-\-default\-lang en \-\-languages fr,de,el
.TP
Initialize with interactive wizard:
.B lrm init \-i
.TP
Convert RESX files to JSON format:
.B lrm convert \-\-to json
.TP
Convert JSON to RESX with nested keys flattened:
.B lrm convert \-\-from json \-\-to resx
.TP
Validate all resource files:
.B lrm validate
.TP
View translation statistics:
.B lrm stats
.TP
Launch interactive editor:
.B lrm edit
.TP
View a specific key:
.B lrm view SaveButton
.TP
View keys matching a pattern:
.B lrm view "Error.*"
.TP
Add a new key interactively:
.B lrm add NewKey \-i
.TP
Translate missing values with Google:
.B lrm translate \-\-only\-missing \-\-provider google \-\-target\-languages fr,de,es
.TP
Export to CSV:
.B lrm export \-o translations.csv
.TP
Scan source code for unused keys:
.B lrm scan \-\-show\-unused
.TP
Create a backup:
.B lrm backup create \-\-description "Before major refactoring"
.TP
List backups:
.B lrm backup list
.TP
Restore from backup:
.B lrm backup restore \-\-version 5 \-\-preview
.TP
Start web server:
.B lrm web
.TP
Start web server on custom port:
.B lrm web \-\-port 8080 \-\-bind\-address 0.0.0.0
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error
.TP
.B 2
Validation errors found
.TP
.B 3
Missing translations found
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation: https://github.com/nickprotop/LocalizationManager
.PP
Installation guide:
.I /usr/share/doc/lrm/INSTALLATION.md
.PP
Complete command reference:
.I /usr/share/doc/lrm/COMMANDS.md
.SH AUTHOR
Nikolaos Protopapas <nikolaos.protopapas@gmail.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Nikolaos Protopapas
.PP
Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/nickprotop/LocalizationManager/issues
